s1.md, before:

# S1

## 1 - Intro

**Tools**

- [git](https://git-scm.com)

- [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en)

- [travis-ci](https://travis-ci.org)

## 2 - npm and packahe.json setup

Configuration of ```npm``` in [npm website](https://www.npmjs.com) and read the documentation in site about ```npm-config```. You can read [here](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/config) about it.

Go to terminal and run: ```npm set init-author-name "YOUR NAME"```

And follow with the commands:

- ```npm set init-author-email "YOUR EMAIL HERE" ``` the e-mail stay public.

- ```npm set init-url "YOUR WENSITE" ```

- ``` npm set init-license "GPLv3" ```

- ``` npm adduser ```

It will help upload packages for npm.

- ```npm init``` to create the package. It will ask for name, version (1.0.0) with semantical version. Descrition and entry point (index.js) this is for call the import linked with master file. Test command and git repository. Keywords and license.

## 3 - gitignore

Install with ```sudo npm install gitignore -g```

- ```gitignore Node``` if ```gitignore -types``` will show available structures.

## 4 - Documentation

- Awesome README and LICENSES

**Examples:**

- https://github.com/lyef/lyef-react-component

- https://github.com/matiassingers/awesome-readme

## 5 - Code standards and stylesguide

- [The Airbnb standard for JS](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript)

- [The Standard JS](https://github.com/standard/standard) - use pure

- [Idiomatic](https://github.com/rwaldron/idiomatic.js)

- JSHint, JSLint, JSCS (+ESLint)

## 6 - Install ESLint

Install the ESLint with safe-dev: ``` npm install eslint --save-dev ``` documentation [here](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/getting-started)

**More URL**

- https://willianjusten.com.br/analisando-seu-codigo-js-com-linter/

- http://www.sublimelinter.com/en/latest/

- https://github.com/AtomLinter/linter-eslint

Run command for check syntax: ```./node_modules/.bin/eslint src/*.js```

## 7 Update Eslint for a new version (4)

Will be necessary for update a package (eslint and others removed):

- ```npm uninstall --save-dev eslint```

And remove the ```.eslint.js``` file too.

There is another way for run after updated:

- ```npm run lint```

## 8 Setup for editorconfig

 - see: https://editorconfig.org

**Micro editor tutorial**

- See https://github.com/editorconfig/editorconfig-core-c/blob/master/INSTALL.md instructions

## 9 npm script

It is a script that run with npm. Read more [here](https://css-tricks.com/why-npm-scripts/).

## 10 Hooks in git

Scripts that runs before a task for a git command (before or after). You can read more about [here](https://github.com/typicode/husky) and [here](https://git-scm.com/book/it/v2/Customizing-Git-Git-Hooks).

- Install husky: ```npm install husky@next --save-dev```

Put prepush in ```"script"``` key inside ```package.json```

Commit message:

husky works in v5 alpha ok

s1.md, after:

# S1

## 1 - Intro

**Tools**

- [git](https://git-scm.com)

- [nodejs](https://nodejs.org/en)

- [travis-ci](https://travis-ci.org)

## 2 - npm and packahe.json setup

Configuration of ```npm``` in [npm website](https://www.npmjs.com) and read the documentation in site about ```npm-config```. You can read [here](https://docs.npmjs.com/misc/config) about it.

Go to terminal and run: ```npm set init-author-name "YOUR NAME"```

And follow with the commands:

- ```npm set init-author-email "YOUR EMAIL HERE" ``` the e-mail stay public.

- ```npm set init-url "YOUR WENSITE" ```

- ``` npm set init-license "GPLv3" ```

- ``` npm adduser ```

It will help upload packages for npm.

- ```npm init``` to create the package. It will ask for name, version (1.0.0) with semantical version. Descrition and entry point (index.js) this is for call the import linked with master file. Test command and git repository. Keywords and license.

## 3 - gitignore

Install with ```sudo npm install gitignore -g```

- ```gitignore Node``` if ```gitignore -types``` will show available structures.

## 4 - Documentation

- Awesome README and LICENSES

**Examples:**

- https://github.com/lyef/lyef-react-component

- https://github.com/matiassingers/awesome-readme

## 5 - Code standards and stylesguide

- [The Airbnb standard for JS](https://github.com/airbnb/javascript)

- [The Standard JS](https://github.com/standard/standard) - use pure

- [Idiomatic](https://github.com/rwaldron/idiomatic.js)

- JSHint, JSLint, JSCS (+ESLint)

## 6 - Install ESLint

Install the ESLint with safe-dev: ``` npm install eslint --save-dev ``` documentation [here](https://eslint.org/docs/user-guide/getting-started)

**More URL**

- https://willianjusten.com.br/analisando-seu-codigo-js-com-linter/

- http://www.sublimelinter.com/en/latest/

- https://github.com/AtomLinter/linter-eslint

Run command for check syntax: ```./node_modules/.bin/eslint src/*.js```

## 7 Update Eslint for a new version (4)

Will be necessary for update a package (eslint and others removed):

- ```npm uninstall --save-dev eslint```

And remove the ```.eslint.js``` file too.

There is another way for run after updated:

- ```npm run lint```

## 8 Setup for editorconfig

 - see: https://editorconfig.org

**Micro editor tutorial**

- See https://github.com/editorconfig/editorconfig-core-c/blob/master/INSTALL.md instructions

## 9 npm script

It is a script that run with npm. Read more [here](https://css-tricks.com/why-npm-scripts/).

## 10 Hooks in git

Scripts that runs before a task for a git command (before or after). You can read more about [here](https://github.com/typicode/husky) and [here](https://git-scm.com/book/it/v2/Customizing-Git-Git-Hooks).

- Install husky: ```npm install husky@next --save-dev```

Put pre-push in ```"script"``` key inside ```package.json``` like the example [here](https://typicode.github.io/husky/#/). Using the v5 alpha version of husky.
